### INTRODUCTION<br>

<p style="text-indent:50px;text-align:justify;">Whirling Hygrometer is also known as Sling Hygrometers. These instruments have a pair of thermometers, one of them having its bulb covered with wet muslin cloth. Here, dry and wet bulb thermometer are mounted side by side on bass frame fitted with a handle for whirling purpose. The thermometer with wet bulb muslin cloth on its bulb records wet-bulb temperature and the other one records dry-bulb temperature. These two temperatures along with barometric pressure is used in calculating humidity. Whirling hygrometer should be shielded from solar radiation and held far from body, with hygrometer facing path of air current. </p>

<p style="text-indent:50px;text-align:justify;">Dry-Bulb Temperature : It is the temperature recorded by using a conventional thermometer. The thermometer without muslin cloth in the psychrometer records dry-bulb temperature. It just reads the ordinary temperature of the air and is a measure of sensible heat content of the air. Its unit is 째F or 째C or kelvin (K). 
</p>

<p style="text-indent:50px;text-align:justify;">Wet-Bulb Temperature : It is recorded by thermometer having wet muslin cloth on its bulb. The temperature recorded is in general lower than dry-bulb temperature because of cooling effect of the evaporating water of wet muslin cloth. They are equal only when air is in saturation and no net evaporation of water from wet muslin cloth takes place. Wetbulb temperature can never be higher than dry-bulb temperature. From the definition point of view, it is defined as the temperature at which water vapor evaporating into the air can bring down the air in saturation adiabatically at that temperature. It is a measure of the evaporating capacity of the air. Its unit is 째F or 째C or kelvin (K).
</p>

<p style="text-indent:50px;text-align:justify;">Concept of Wet-Bulb Temperature : The water molecules in the wet muslin cloth take up energy from the neighboring molecules and evaporate into the air. The evaporating molecules leave the thermometer surface with reduced energy. This causes depression in the temperature near the thermometer bulb. Thus, lower temperature is recorded. Thus, a difference between the temperature at the bulb and the atmosphere exists. This causes flow of heat from the air through convection. Initially this flow of heat from air to bulb with wet muslin cloth is slower than the rate of heat loss from the bulb with wet muslin due to evaporation. But, a stage comes when the rate of heat loss and rate of heat gained in the two opposite processes equal. At this point, no further depression in temperature of wet-bulb is observed. At equilibrium, the temperature of thermometer with wet muslin cloth on its bulb is taken as wet-bulb temperature.
</p>